In Borealis: Arctic Expeditions you become the leaders of scientific teams venturing into uncharted
boreal territories to observe and photograph wild animals. To succeed, you need to coordinate the
efforts of your 9-person crew of specialists from 3 different fields of expertise, represented by meeples
of different colors. You also have to choose suitable modes of transport for the inaccessible lands,
icefields and waters of the Far North. The one who gathers the most impressive collection of animal
photographs while traveling deepest into the frosty land, will gain everlasting fame along with their
own encyclopedia entry and a tiny snow-covered island named after them.

Rulebook

Components

4 player boards 1 rulebook

100 animal cards 12 objective cards 10 scoring cards 4 player aid cards
(63 x 88 mm) (63 x 88 mm) (63 x 88 mm) (63 x 88 mm)
‘ / ig »
i, 4 AY is . "a
\ isd t
=— easel
1 first player token 36 scientist meeples 12 flag tokens 1 score pad
(12 of each type, differing in color
and the item they carry)
me * \
=“ = Ase |
\: — | \
| ; 5
24 scoring tokens 12 scoring tokens 12 scoring tokens

worth 1 ae each worth 3 + each worth 5 se each

Animal cards

A - scientists that must be
moved in order to play the
card

B - species’ Latin name

C - species icon

D - additional victory point
(only present on some cards)

E - vehicle icon

There are 5 different species that appear on animal
cards: polar bear, Arctic fox, snowy owl, harp seal
and Atlantic puffin.

7 wt dA

There are also 5 different vehicles: sleigh, zeppelin,
submarine, kayak and skis.

Yer, > by FH KL

There are an equal number of each species and each
vehicle in the animal cards deck.

Scoring cards
and objective cards

Scoring cards describe
additional rules for scoring
at the end of the game.

For each game, 2 scoring cards

are chosen at random.
24% for each card with |

your most common —

vehicle type

,

Objective cards are
divided into 3 types:

i. . 9 Geo
i animal objectives,
& scientist objectives

- vehicle objectives.

Each objective card describes a goal that players
compete to be the first to achieve during the game.

For each game, 3 objective cards (1 of each type) are
chosen at random.

Player board

A player board has 3 locations where different species
(animal cards) are observed by the scientists (wooden
meeples). Each location has its respective exploration
track below, divided into 8 spaces used to track your
advance through uncharted territory. There are also
two camps where the scientists may rest.

All 4 player boards share an identical pattern
of vehicle icons on side I, but each has a unique
pattern on side II.

A - location with scientists and animal cards in play

B - exploration track

C-camp

D - scientist

E - flag

Setup

Refer to the setup illustration on the next page. Each player:

Shuffle all the animal cards to form the animal deck and place it 1) takes a player board (E) and places it in front
face down on the table (A). of them with side I or side II up, as agreed
Reveal 4 animal cards from the deck and place them face up in 2) puts 3 scientists of different colors in each
the middle of the play area to form the pool of available cards (B). location on their board (F)

Choose at random 2 scoring cards and place them face up on 3) places a flag on the starting space of each
the table (C). of their exploration tracks (G)

Choose at random 1 objective card of each type (3 in total), place 4) takes 2 scoring tokens worth 1 + each (1)
them face up on the table and then, next to each, place a number 5) draws 4 animal cards from the animal deck
of 5 4 scoring tokens equal to the player count (D). to form their hand (H), which they don’t show to
Put the rest of the scoring and objective cards back in the box. their opponents.

Ph aoe

If a player is not satisfied with their starting hand, they can discard some or all of their cards
and draw an equal number of cards from the deck. A player can do this only once. :
Give the 1st player token (J) to the player who lives northernmost (or you can choose who goes first in any other way
you agree upon). oe

Gameplay

Players take turns sequentially, starting from the 1st player.

On their turn, a player must perform one of the following actions: OBSERVE AN ANIMAL or REGROUP.

Action: OBSERVE AN ANIMAL

1. Play an animal card from your hand, placing it in

a location containing the scientists matching those
printed on the card. Each new card in a location should be
placed on top of the previous one, covering its upper part
but leaving the bottom part with species and vehicle icons
visible. All the cards in all your locations are collectively
described as “your cards in play”.

2. Move the scientists as directed by the arrows printed
on the card. Each scientist goes to an adjacent location
or camp to observe the animal from a distance, while
not scaring it off. Scientists moved to a new location can
be moved in the following rounds after playing a card,
while those moved to a camp stay there until the player
performs a REGROUP action.

3. If the vehicle on the card matches one of the vehicles
- on your respective exploration track one space below your
flag, move the flag down one space.

4. Take a card of your choice from the pool of available
cards and refill the pool with a card from the animal
deck.

IMPORTANT: If you are not satisfied with the available
cards, you can either

> draw the top card from the animal deck instead

or
> pay 1 ae to discard all 4 available cards forming the
pool and replace them with 4 new ones from the deck
before choosing your card (you can do this only once
around)

6

Action: REGROUP

1. Discard as many animal cards as you want from your
hand (this can be 0 cards)

2. Draw that many cards from the animal deck

3. Take as many 1 : tokens as scientists you have in
your camps

4. Take all your scientists from both camps and put
them allin a single location of your choice

Once all the players have performed their actions,
the round ends and a new one begins, starting
from the same player.

As a result of players discarding animal cards

from their hand or the pool of available cards,
a face-up discard pile is formed.

If the animal deck is exhausted, shuffle the cards
from the discard pile to form a new one.

Example

In his turn, Ootah plays an animal card onto the right
location (it’s the only one with scientists matching the card).
The arrows on the card show that he has to move one amber
scientist left (to the middle location) and one amber scientist —
right (to a camp). ee

Because the vehicle icon on the card matches one of
the vehicle icons printed on the next space on the right
exploration track, Ootah moves his flag one space forward.

In his next turn, Ootah plays an animal card onto the middle
location and moves an amber scientist left and a mint
scientist right, as shown by the arrows on the card.

The vehicle icon on the card doesn’t match any of the vehicle
icons on the next space of the middle exploration track,
so this time Ootah doesn’t move the flag.

In his next turn, Ootah decides to perform the regroup action. Fc,

On top of discarding a chosen number of cards from his hand
and drawing that many from the animal deck, he moves all
his scientists from both camps to a single location.

He chooses the left location.

He gets 4 + for moving the 4 scientists there.

Claiming an Objective

Once a player fulfills the requirements printed on an
objective card, they claim it and take one of the + tokens
lying next to it. After a player claims an objective, other
players have until the end of the current round to claim it,
too. Once the turn ends, both the objective card and all its
remainin 5 + tokens are removed from the game.

If a player realizes they already fulfilled an objective
requirement in one of the previous rounds and didn’t
notice, they may instantly claim the objective if the
objective card is still in play. The other players have until
the end of the current round to claim this objective as well.

Scoring

Your final score is the sum of the following:

1. He awarded for the sets of animals
of the same species you have in a single
location. Each species in each location
_ is scored independently according to
the table shown below, which is also
printed on the player boards.

60.
oe
number of animals

of the same species
in a location

a

victory points

End of the game

The game end is triggered when one of the players has 7

cards in one of their locations. Then the current round is
played until the end, so each player has played the same

number of turns. Finally, the players count their victory

points 2) using the scoring pad.

2. The sum of +e values printed on exploration track
spaces you have flags on

3. The sum of the * printed on the animal cards you
have in play

4. +e calculated from the scoring cards.
Scoring conditions for each card are explained in detail
on pages 11-12.

5. Total e value of the +e tokens you have collected

The player with the highest total score wins. In case of

a tie, the player with the flag furthest down the exploration
track wins the tie. If still tied, the player with most points
on their He tokens wins the tie. If even this doesn’t settle
the tie, the players must live with the fact they don’t know
who was better this time.
Example

The illustration below shows the situation on Britta’s board
at the end of the game.

For the animal sets she collected, Britta gets 12 se:
> left location: 3 @ worth 2 3 and 1 @— worth 0
> middle location: 5 @ worth 10 +, 1@®@ worth 0 ae

and 1 ¥ worth 0
> right location: 2 ¥ worth 1 a and 1 @®@ worth 0 a

On the exploration track she scores 12 +, as her flags are

on spaces worth 3 +, 6 ae and 3 te.

—= Se —_——————

Ea) :
908 ed

2 of Britta’s cards have the He symbol printed on it,
so she scores 2 .

The scoring cards chosen for this game were
Interspecies Relationships and Mating Season.

Britta has 2 locations with exactly 2 species of animals
(ed + @R in the left one and @— + W in the right one),
so she scores 6 +e for Interspecies Relationships.

She has 3 pairs of animals of the same species

(ed ed in the left location,  # in the middle one

and ¥ ¥ in the right one), so she scores 6 He for
Mating Season.

By returning scientists from camps and completing
objectives, Britta gathered e tokens worth 16 3.

Britta’s total score equals 54 3.

& \|pritta
/| 12

Ac h 1€ ve Mm en ts The more achievements you score,

the more prestigious the title you bear:
Below is a list of additional achievements you can complete while 0-4 * Tundra Tourist
playing Arctic Expeditions. Write your name on top of the achievement 5-8 # Arctic Amateur
track of a chosen color (up to 6 players can simultaneously track
their progress). After each game, draw an X mark in the snowflake

9-12 “# Boreal Backpacker

13-16 *#* Experienced Expeditioner
next to the achievement you completed. If you completed multiple 17+ # Polar Pro

achievements in a single game, mark them all.

Your name

Scoring cards explained

Common Destination - 12 +e if you have
all 3 flags in a horizontal line or 5 a if
| you have 2 of them in a horizontal line.

=| Example: your left flag is 3 spaces from
the start, the middle flag is 4 spaces from
the start and the left flag is 3 spaces from the start. Two
flags (the left and the right) are in the same horizontal
line, thus you score 5 ke.

_| Expansive Species - 5 : for each
horizontal row of 3 animals of the same

| species. A horizontal row consists of
three animal cards, each in a different
location, that are adjacent to each other
horizontally. Example: you have the following sequences
of animals in your locations:

The 1st (bottom) card in all 3 locations
is a @@ and the 3rd card in all
locations is a Y. For these

two horizontal lines (3 @& and 3 WB),

you score 2x5%= 10 a.

Interspecies Relationships -— 3 +e for each
location with animals of exactly 2 species.
«9 If in a given location there are animal

) cards of exactly 2 different species, you
score 3 e for this location. Example: you
have the following animals in your locations.

i es

You score 3 ae for the middle
location and no points for
the remaining two.

AAAAAN

SARL
RBA,

Outer Lands - 7 ea for each location with
more animal cards than the middle location.
Example: you have 5 cards in the left
location, 5 cards in the middle one and 6
cards in the right one. As you have more
cards in the right location than in the middle one, you

score 7 .

Farewell Party - 2 He for each scientist

in a location of your choice at the end of the
game. At the end of the game, choose 1
location and score 2 ca for each of your
scientists there. Remember that a camp
doesn’t count as a location. Example: you have 4 scientists
in the left location, 1 scientist in the middle location and 2
scientists in the right one. You choose the left location for

scoring and get 4x2 aa =8 .

| Mating Season - 2 +e for each set of exactly
_| 2 animals of the same species next to each

~| other in a location. Points are awarded for
each pair of cards with animals of the
same species, in the same location and
touching each other. While there can be other cards with
this species in this location, they can’t touch the scoring
pair. You score for all such pairs in all your locations.
Example: in the middle location you have the following
sequence of cards: #&, GE, BW, W, WB, KE, KE. Two pairs
of @®@ fulfill the condition, so you score 2x2 a =4 +e
for this location. You also score for whatever pairs you
have in the other two locations, of course.

| Safe Return - 3 3 for each scientist in

_| acamp at the end of the game. You take the
total number of scientists in both camps.
| Example: you have 2 scientists in the left
camp and 3 scientists in the right camp.

You score 5x3 ae 15 ak.

Popular Vehicle - 2 +e for each card

,. | with your most common vehicle type.

-= | Your most common vehicle type is the
| one which appears most often on your
cards in play. If there are 2 or more

| Territorial Animals - 6 He for each location
with no animals of the same species adjacent
to each other. You take into account only the
animals adjacent in the same location - it
doesn’t matter if there is a horizontally

Sehicis types that are considered most common, you adjacent animal of the same species in a neighboring
score only for one of them. Example: you have 1 3 , location. Example: you have the following sequences of
36D, 3 xX, 4 Seay and 4 Qe, on your cards in play. animals.
You score 4x 23 = 8 a
=~ | - 8 ed
OEE ae ee aad! Only the left and right locations
> the value of your least-scoring flag. If 2 a ob fulfill th ; diti th
| fl ella ies ace A me te ulfill the scoring condition, as there
Onm Ore ea aaa B are 2 @™& adjacent to each other in
you use the value of just one of them vy a Ad the middle location
while calculating your Untrodden Path i oe ot :

You score 2x 6 3 = 12 4.

score. Example: your flags are at spaces worth 3 4,
4 e and 5 +. The least-scoring flag is worth 3 +,
so you score 2 x 3 = 6 ae from the Untrodden Path
card.

Credits

Game Design: Dariusz Mindur
_ Illustrations:
Product Owner: Marek Cholostiakow
Development: Wojciech Grajkowski,
Tomasz Napierata, Grzegorz Szczepartiski
Art Direction: Tomasz Badalski
Creative Director: Mateusz Komada
Graphic Design:
Project Manager: Lukasz Cyran
Production Manager: Radostaw Milewski

Imported and Distributed in the UK by:
Vivid Toy Group Ltd, GU3 1LS, UK

The team members at Lucky Duck Games
work very hard to deliver the best possible
product and experience to you, through our
games. However, if you find any pieces are

Proofreading: ney : ‘

missing or if you have any questions, please
English Edition: contact us online at LuckyDuckGames.com
Sales: Sean Wainwright or through info@luckyduckgames.com
Marketing: Risa Petrone and we will be happy to help you.

Events: Chris Strecker

